My name is Maximiliano, I can go by Max.
This is going to be browser data storage.
So we have a full day talking
about how to store, retrieve and
manage data client-side in the browser.
So that's for websites, web apps, PWAs,
even hybrid apps in case you are doing
still phone gap apps, electron apps.
So we're going to cover the modern
APIs available for that.
So really quickly,
I'm a mobile web developer.
So I have been doing web
development since forever and
mobile apps since 2001,okay?
I'm from Argentina.
So I came from Buenos Aires,
that's my home.
And in this topic, so
I've been as I was saying, since forever,
since 1996 I started doing websites,
designing websites and
of course JavaScript
like almost after that.
I authored 13 books on the topic, okay?
And the latest one is available for
free at web.dev/learn/learn/pwa.
In terms of web apps, so
I published around 160 different web apps.
I'm talking about a whole range
of web apps across two decades.
I'm talking about web apps for
mobile devices such as Blackberry,
Symbian, if you have heard about that,
okay?
But also for iOS, for iPads, so
talking about web apps that
are published on the web today, but
also web apps that were actually published
on different stores, even 15 years ago.
I'm saying this because I have been
playing with data storage since then.
Because doing web apps was actually
a way to use these API's a lot.
So I have all that experience to talk
about what happened with those APIs,
which APIs are still useful and
which API's we shouldn't be using, okay?
So, today we are not going to
cover all the APIs available, but
the APIs that you should be using, okay?
And we will see why also.
So, directly into the topic.
We're going to cover first
the state of browser storage.
So we're going to see right now,
which APIs are actually not
a good idea to use,
even if they are still there, okay?
So we're going to talk
about debugging tools.
So all the tools that we have available
today on browsers to work with data
storage.
But lets talk about something that
typically we don't think too much about or
we don't know what's going on.
It seems like a mystery, that's Quotas.
So, how does that work in
terms of how much data is
possible to store in a web app, okay?
Client-side, we are always
talking about client-side here.
Of course in the cloud you can do
wherever you want because you don't have
any restriction.
We'll talk about persistence as well.
So, what happens with our data,
what's the life cycle of the data
that we are going to store?
And in terms of workshop and
playing with the real app,
adding some code on it,
we are going to talk a little bit about
web storage that probably you
know as local storage, okay?
IndexedDB, the caches storage API,
and the file system API.
So those are the four APIs that
we will cover deeply, okay?
So, pre-requisites.
So I think I'm assuming that
you know JavaScript, so
plain JavaScript with promises.
So ES 2017 kind of if you are there,
that's okay.
We are not going to use any library or
any framework,
we are not going to use any package share.
We are just going to write plain
JavaScript so you can actually apply
everything that we are going to learn to
any library, to TypeScript if you want.
So everything will be
compatible with just the web.
So whatever library you're using,
you can still apply what we're
going to learn today, right?
And on that URL, firtman, that's my
last name, .github.io/browser-storage,
you have a step by step instructions
of what we are going to do today.
Including a PDF version of the slides that
I have here in case you wanna download
the slides and follow along,
you have the slides there.
And also the project that I will give you
in a second, you have the link there to
clone the repo and then we will
start coding with that project.